= check_writer

A ruby gem to help generate checks in PDF format.

It generates PDF checks that look something 
like this[https://github.com/rylwin/check_writer/raw/master/spec/assets/test-0.12.0.pdf].
Print that PDF on check stock and you've got yourself a real check.

Note: This project is being written/maintained using Ruby 1.9.3.
Other versions of Ruby have not been tested.

== Project Status

A version of this code has been used in a production application for a couple of years 
and we are finally getting around to extracting the check writing code. As we go through this 
process, there may be significant changes to the API. You've been warned.

Currently the only check stock format that is supported is the 1/3 bottom check. 
You can get some check stock at 
Amazon[http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002HIV1KQ/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asn_il_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=checkwriter-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B002HIV1KQ],
amongst other places.

== GnuMICR

check_writer uses GnuMICR (http://www.sandeen.net/GnuMICR) to print the MICR numbers at the 
bottom of the check. Please read the notes on the GnuMICR site. We have not 
had any issues using this font (2+ years now), but that is no guarantee.

== Example

  @check = CheckWriter::Check.new(
    :number => '12345',                               # the check number
    :date => Date.yesterday,                          # Default: today

    :payee_name => 'John Smith',
    :payee_address => ['Line 1', 'City, State, Zip'], # Array of as many lines as desired

    :payor_name => 'Payor Name',
    :payor_address => ['Line 1', 'City, State, Zip'],

    :bank_name => 'Bank of America',
    :bank_address => ['Line 1', 'City, State, Zip'],
    :bank_fraction => '12-9876/1234',

    :routing_number => '1234567689',
    :account_number => '123456789',

    :amount => '1003.23',
    :memo => 'Memo: Void after 60 days'
  )   

  check.to_pdf # returns PDF file data

If you set the +with_stubs+ option to +true+ you'll get a bit of formatting
and information displayed in the top and middle check stub. 
Here's an example[https://github.com/rylwin/check_writer/raw/master/spec/assets/with_stubs-0.12.0.pdf].

It is also possible to include additional data in the stubs in the form of a table. If +with_stubs+ is true,
then passing a 2D array to +stub_table_data+ will generate a table within each stub. To pass options to Prawn's
#table method, set +stub_table_options+ with a hash of options.
Example here[https://github.com/rylwin/check_writer/raw/master/spec/assets/with_stub_table_data-0.12.0.pdf].

Instead of just returning a PDF, you can access the Prawn PDF writer object 
(Prawn::Document), which you can use to further customize the check or even 
include multiple checks on the same PDF:

  pdf = check1.to_prawn
  pdf.start_new_page # this is a prawn method
  pdf = check2.to_prawn(pdf)
  pdf.render # returns the PDF data for a PDF w/ two checks on two pages

== Signatures

Signatures can be included on the checks by setting the +:signature_image_file+ option, which should
reference a JPG or PNG image. The recommended dimensions for a signature image are 175px x 40px.

== Tests

check_writer uses the appraisal gem to facilitate testing of various versions of prawn. To run the tests using appraisal:

    $ rake appraisal

Note that if you need modify the Gemfile and need to re-bundle, you will also have to reinstall the appraisal gemfiles as well. To do this, your must first remove the +:development+ group from the Gemfile (i.e., the gems in the development group need to be bundled along with the rest of the gems, so they cannot be isolated in the dev group). Once you have done this, run:

    $ rake appraisal:install

After appraisal installs its gemfiles, you can revert your Gemfile to as it was before.

== Contributing to check_writer
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet.
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it.
* Fork the project.
* Start a feature/bugfix branch.
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution.
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== Copyright

Font: The GnuMICR font is distributed under GPL, but please note the additional comments from
the font creator in the 
GnuMICR README[https://github.com/rylwin/check_writer/tree/master/vendor/GnuMICR-0.30].

Copyright (c) 2012 Ryan Winograd. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

